[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When you really
think about it,
the idea of disclosure has
been with the UFO field since
the very beginning, since we've
known about flying saucers
in the 1940s.
We just haven't
called it disclosure.
Back in the '50s,
back in the '60s,
there were other
words used to describe
this idea that we need to end
secrecy on the subject of UFOs.
Back in those days,
in the United States,
there was an organization
known as NICAP
that was run by a
Major Donald Keyhoe,
and Keyhoe was the guy
back then who was just
fighting the fight to
end UFO secrecy, what
we would call disclosure.
It's never stopped.
Through the 1970s, it continued.
New people came onto
the scene, and they also
were pushing for some form of
openness, the end of secrecy,
again, what we would call
disclosure through the '80s,
through the '90s, and into the
21st century, when we finally
started using that
phrase, disclosure.
It's never stopped.
It's always been an issue.
It's always been something that
UFO researchers and activists
have been striving for.
The question is, will
we ever have disclosure?
The question really is, will we
ever have a moment in our world
where this subject,
this subject of UFOs,
is openly acknowledged by
all elements of our society,
including all of our
scientific establishments
and political institutions?
Because that's
really what we mean
when we talk about disclosure.
It's disclosing the reality
of this from a previous mode
of secrecy.
Well, I'll just say this.
To understand whether
we can have disclosure,
I often like to
rewind the clock,
so to speak, and
look at the past
and to look at how UFO
secrecy seems to have begun.
And so I like to go
back to the 1940s
and look at the presidency
of Harry Truman.
He was the US president
from 1945 to 1953.
And it was under Harry Truman's
presidency within the US
that this whole matter
of flying saucers
became a really
important public issue.
And it's also during
that period of time
when we can really see that the
secrecy apparatus around UFOs
really took root.
You go back to 1947 to events
like Roswell, New Mexico.
Did a flying saucer crash there
with alien bodies recovered?
Did something similar
happen the following spring
in Aztec, New
Mexico, not far away,
with yet more alien bodies?
There are a number of
these other crash retrieval
incidents that appear
to have taken place.
And if you believe that
they happened, and I
do believe that at least
some of them happened,
then you're facing a really
interesting situation here.
If you're the President
of the United States,
this information is going
to come to you, obviously.
And then you have
to make a decision.
Do you tell the world?
Do you tell the
world that you have
recovered this exotic technology
and these alien bodies?
And I think the instinct
of most of us looking
at the matter with a lot
of historical perspective
and distance-- we
would say, yes, we're
going to tell the world.
If this were to happen, the
world has a right to know.
And I would agree
with that, absolutely.
And it's very possible
that Harry Truman might
have agreed with that, too.
But Harry Truman was
in a really tough spot
because he'd be surrounded
by advisors, all of whom,
I'm sure, would say,
bad idea, bad idea.
You tell the world
that this is real.
What's going to happen?
A, you don't even know who
these other beings are.
You don't even know if
they're friendly or not.
So what are you going
to tell the world?
You're just going to get
people worked up over nothing?
B, this is seriously
advanced technology.
Are you willing to
share this technology
with everyone else in the
world, including the Russians,
including any other potential
adversaries that come up?
Because, let's
face it, you're not
willing to share
atomic technology
with the rest of the world.
And in 1947, just to give
you some perspective,
the United States still had
a monopoly of atomic bombs
in the world.
No one else had atomic
bombs in 1947 except the US.
And the United States was
absolutely not willing,
I can assure you, not willing
to share its atomic technology
with any other nation.
If they were not willing
to share atomic technology,
I think we can probably
assume they were not
willing to share something as
exotic as alien technology.
So that would be
problem number 2.
And problem number 3 and 4 and
5 and 6 and 7 would be how bad
would public panic be?
How bad would public panic be?
How badly would this affect
our energy infrastructure?
If these objects are using
something other than petroleum
to move around, would this
pose a short- or medium- or
long-term risk to the very
profitable petroleum industry
that the entire world is using
to move its infrastructure?
Do we really want to upset that,
and on and on and on and on?
So this-- these--
there are a lot
of questions that would come up.
And it is very likely
that President Harry
Truman back in the 1940s
would say, you know what?
Let's keep this quiet for now.
We'll study it for now.
We will review the situation
every so often and decide
if and when we are going to
disclose any of this reality
to the rest of the world.
That's how the secrecy starts.
The president might
say, you're in charge
of managing the media.
You're in charge
of understanding
all of the scientific
implications
of this phenomenon.
You're in charge
of understanding
who these other beings are and
do we have anything to worry
about, and on and on and on.
So that's the team.
And over time, the tasks become
allocated in various ways
to create an entire
structure of secrecy.
People think that's impossible.
Well, I would say study
the world of secrecy
for a little while,
and then guess again.
It is entirely possible
and happens all the time
that secrets are kept
for years and years
and, indeed, can be kept
indefinitely, and often are.
So the UFO secret begins in
the 1940s, and it continues
and it deepens.
And the problem with
this structure of secrecy
is that it appears to have
become very largely privatized.
And it doesn't mean
that it's moved
100% out of all
government authority,
particularly relating to the
United States government.
But it does appear that
a lot of this knowledge,
a lot of the money, a lot
of the profit, as well,
really accrues to
private industry
within the UFO secrecy.
And when I say profit,
I mean real profit
because what's going on here--
and just understand
this scenario--
the government-- the army
acquires an artifact,
whether it's a craft or whether
it's a piece of technology,
that now needs to be studied.
It needs to be exploited.
It needs to be understood
scientifically.
How is this done?
Well, the military itself
has some very brilliant minds
working within it,
without a doubt.
But the real scientifically
brilliant minds
are all in private industry.
That's where the money is.
That's where the brainpower is.
And so what happens,
inevitably, is
that the Army or the Air
Force or the Navy or whatever
branch of government hands
off a piece of technology
to a private contractor under
conditions of extreme security
and secrecy.
And the question really becomes,
who owns that technology?
Well, that's a question
for lawyers, who hammer out
their arrangements within
the classified world,
I'm sure, very, very exactly.
But what you really
have over time
is a situation where ownership
over technology and ownership
over the information, the data,
slowly, but surely, I think,
becomes transferred
to private entities.
And if you step outside
of the UFO scenario
and you just look at how
the United States government
bureaucracy works, it's
really the same way.
You see that the power
resides more and more
in private entities that are
standing behind the government.
It's not the government
agencies or the government
elected officials
who are going to say
who really wield the power.
It's the money behind the
state, what some people call
the deep state, which has been
discussed for many, many years
and decades.
So that's, I think, the
situation we're looking
at vis-a-vis the UFO
part of the problem--
that is, UFO tech
increasingly gets privatized.
Now, from a disclosure
point of view,
this presents some
serious problems.
One question is, how much can
any President of the United
States do relating
to this matter?
I'll tell you a story.
About 12 years ago,
I had a conversation
with a very prominent man from
within the US intelligence
community who knew a great
deal about the UFO subject,
a very, very great
deal, an extremely
articulate, intelligent man who
knew multiple US presidents,
multiple heads of the
Central Intelligence Agency,
the CIA, multiple heads
of the Defense Department,
and so forth.
This man is plugged
in very, very well
to the upper, upper echelon
of American national security.
And he happened to have a deep
knowledge of the UFO subject
to boot-- so very
interesting person.
And I happened to talk to him.
And I said, hey, I
would like to ask you,
how much do presidents
know about UFOs?
And he said, well, some
have known more than others.
It's not all the same.
And he just gave me a list.
He said Jimmy Carter
knew, Ronald Reagan knew,
George Bush, Senior, knew.
According to this man, he
was strongly of the opinion
that Bill Clinton did not get
a formal briefing on UFOs,
and nor did George W. Bush.
Now, I happened to have
this particular conversation
during the later part of that
George W. Bush presidency.
So we didn't talk about
Barack Obama or Donald Trump.
But his assessment was
pretty clear, anyway,
which was presidents
come and go.
Presidents have to
kiss the babies,
be in front of the cameras.
They've got to meet
with reporters.
They've got to read
their talking points.
They have thousands
of things that they
have to do in very,
very public light.
And most nearly all of
the important things
that go on in government
are below the surface,
done in countless special
access programs-- that
is, black budget programs-- with
virtually no real government
oversight whatsoever except
under the most limited basis.
And he just asked
me, how much do
you think any president
is really going to be
able to manage all of these--
this mountain of
secret programs?
The answer is almost not at all.
And some presidents
try harder than others
to be on top of all of that.
But it's the bureaucrats,
it's the lifers
within these programs, that
are really running things.
Even within government
programs, the question
is, how much control do they
have over the UFO problem,
over the UFO phenomenon,
over the technology,
over gaining scientific
information about this,
over collecting all the
relevant data on this?
It's not really clear which
formal government agency
does all of this.
There are still many, many
ultra-secret US government
agencies that could
very well have
a great deal of information on
this, from the NSA to the NRO
to any number of probably
still secret organizations
and programs that exist
that we have no idea about.
Keep in mind that the NSA
existed for many, many years
before anyone knew
that it did exist,
and the same is with the NRO,
the National Reconnaissance
Office, which manages--
officially manages all spy
satellites that we have,
and which was a felony
for a member of Congress
to mention for over 30
years until it was finally
outed in the 1990s.
Amazing.
So that's the history of the
American classified world--
is that we have entire
departments that have existed
in total secrecy without
people even knowing
about their existence.
So now when you're looking
at the UFO situation
and we're talking
about disclosure,
it's a really fair
question to ask,
who has got the
information to disclose?
We have multiple stories of
even American presidents being
unable to get access to
the relevant information
that they could then
disclose to the public.
I heard this twice relating to
the presidency of Bill Clinton,
where he was just not able.
And he tried, apparently, to
get to the root of the UFO issue
and just failed and said this
to one person that I personally
know privately during his
second term in 1997 or '98
and was just not able to do
it and had given up because it
just couldn't be done.
This is a real problem.
And every indication--
when we have individuals
who look into this
world of secrecy,
they all conclude
the same thing,
which is that this is a problem
that has moved beyond that
of the United States president.
And the question that we ask is,
who's got the power over this?
And the fact is I
don't know anyone
who really has the full
answer to that question.
Who's got the real power?
Who's got the real knowledge?
Well, now we're getting into
some very important questions,
like, who are the most
powerful, knowledgeable people
in the world?
Is it the United
States president,
or is it anyone
who is beyond that?
Well, I think we're
looking at the latter.
There are groups and people
beyond the United States
president.
And there's even
another obstacle,
which is simply that there
is no conceivable motivation
that those people who have
full possession of this secret
would ever want to
reveal it to the world.
By having sole knowledge of all
of the implications of the UFO
phenomenon, including
the technology,
they are truly holding
the future in their hands.
They are holding an enormous
amount of profit and money
and wealth and power
in their hands.
After all, a study
of this technology
means that they, and they alone,
have the best ground floor
opportunities for investment
for new technology.
Why would they want to
give that advantage up?
And also, they have advantages
in terms of weapons technology
development that would put them
far ahead of other competitors,
it would seem.
There's really not
a lot of reason
why anyone in possession
of this secret
would really want to give
it up for the benefit
of the rest of humanity.
As wonderful as
that sounds to us--
doesn't sound quite as
wonderful, most likely,
to those people
who've got the secret.
They want to keep that advantage
for as long as possible.
And yet with all
of that, with all
of these obstacles
in the way, I do
believe that the
end of UFO secrecy
will be an inevitability.
History is filled
with ruling groups
that seek to maintain their
grip on power forever.
But the fact is that
nothing lasts forever.
And even the most entrenched
of lies that any society can
possibly have, that any society
can possibly live underneath,
cannot last forever.
Ultimately, we learn the truth.
And the truth on
the subject of UFOs
has been with us
for a long time.
And it's not a declining truth.
It is a growing truth.
There are lots of forces on
both sides of this fence that
are seeking to win this battle.
In other words,
there are definitely
forces on the side of
secrecy and propaganda
and disinformation that have
continued every step of the way
to keep their advantage.
But even so, they're not
winning because the forces
on the other side is the force
of greater and greater freedom
of communication and
transference of knowledge.
And the thing is this.
Once this information
comes out, it's
not going back into the bottle.
It's out.
And over the last
several decades,
and even in the
last several years,
we have been learning
new and very important
things about this phenomenon
that are now never going away.
Increasingly in our era,
it's easier and easier
for people genuinely
to talk about UFOs,
even if they have to change the
phrase and call them "UAP"--
still the same thing.
But we're able to talk about
it more and more easily,
and that's a really good thing.
And I don't foresee that this
door is now going to slam,
at least not completely.
There's always a back-and-forth.
There's always an ebb and flow.
But I really believe
that the end of secrecy
is truly the right
side of history.
No secret can last forever.
Every secret has got
an expiration date.
Our world right now is in
such flux, such a state
of dramatic, radical
social, technological change
in every way that
one can imagine,
that's an unstable
situation that
is a perfect stew for
some new revelation
to come out that
really will shake
the foundations of the
walls of UFO secrecy.
Now, when that happens, when
the big revelation happens,
the great admission
happens, the real question
of what happens next--
well, that's a whole other
series of explorations
that we can look into.
I do believe that the
end of UFO secrecy
will probably turn out
to be among the greatest
transformations in the
history of our species.
We're in the process of some
very dramatic transformations
right now.
And even so, the
knowledge that we
are not alone, the
knowledge that there
has been a concealment of that
presence for a long time--
all of these are going to
have monumental changes.
All of these will bring
monumental changes
to our society in
ways that we really
can't truly predict, even
though I tried once in a book
to predict it.
But it's a tough game
looking into the future.
What we can see is that
change is inevitable,
and the current system that
we have is going to change.
I would say the coming years
will require a lot of bravery,
a lot of fortitude,
a lot of persistence.
But in the end, truth will win.
I'd like to say one more
thing about disclosure.
And whereas I am a
great believer in it,
I'm a great believer that it's
not our lot to be spoon-fed BS
and lies for the
rest of our lives,
as if we're
five-year-old children--
I don't think that that's
appropriate for this stage
of human civilization anymore.
I think we can do a
lot better than that.
But I also don't think that
a disclosure will necessarily
be full or be completely true.
We have to realize that
lies and spin and propaganda
are the way of the world.
And when new information
is presented to us,
we have got to look at
that with a critical eye.
Now, I wouldn't say a
knee-jerk, reflexive claim
that that's disinformation.
I think that's also
equally foolish.
But I do think that
what we need to do
is look at all information
with a critical eye
and base it upon available
evidence that we have.
So we need to bring
a critical mind
to any kind of future
disclosure and recognize
that there is a potential
mountain of information
on this subject and--
is very possibly
that we're being given only the
smallest sliver, a sliver that
may very well be politically
beneficial to whoever's
doing the dishing out.
It's an old saying
that the best way
to keep a secret is to
pretend to share it.
So we've got to be
careful about that,
and we want to be careful
about a false disclosure that
really isn't a disclosure.
But I do believe that we are
moving further and further
down this road where more
information on the UFO subject
is coming out.
And it will be
inevitable that there
will be a big revelation--
I believe this-- where
denying it any longer
will be an exercise in futility.
And the next thing we know, it
could be a very rapid series
of events by which our
foundation, our world,
is simply rocked by
this new information
that we are not alone and
that there are others who
are here and, very
likely, have been here
with us for a long time.
And when that
happens, well, just
open up the doors
because there's
going to be a lot of
change coming up ahead.
The moment of disclosure is not
the end of the fight for truth.
It's really the
beginning of a new phase
for the fight for truth.
That never ends.
But I do believe that in
the end, truth will win out.
[MUSIC PLAYING]